**Assignment 1 Essay

A little bit about me is that I am a sophomore at William & Mary, majoring in data science and minoring in mathematics. I was surprised to learn that this class was being offered at first because it was added very recently before the second add/drop deadline. From the W&M data science mailing list, I was notified that a new COLL 400 was being added for the spring semester. I was really excited when I found out because I really needed a COLL 400 for graduation, plus a class for the AI track for my major. When I first walked into the class, I felt a bit intimidated because everyone was either a junior or senior when I entered. Additionally, mostly everyone seemed to know what they were studying and their interests, but I am just starting out in the major still. Due to this, my main goal for this course is to figure out my interests in data science along the way, and I hope this course will introduce me to many new things. I am already fascinated by coding in the terminal so far; I was expecting it to be extremely scary, but Professor Zahn has made it very approachable, and I already feel like I have learned a lot of new things already. My motivation for learning high-performance computing is very high; I am determined to learn as much as I can because this is a relatively new field, and I believe there will be a lot of valuable insights that can help prepare me for future classes and jobs. My plan to ace this course is to pay very close attention in class because, admittedly, I do not always give my full attention in lots of courses. However, I want to put in my best effort for this class because it is a COLL 400, so it will be much more challenging. Moreover, I need to really pay attention to the new commands I am learning in the terminal because it is unfamiliar to me, as I have never engaged with this content before. The data folder is further divided into raw and cleaned subfolders. As for this first assignment, my folder structure contains branches with data, output, scripts, docs, my markdown essay, and my README.md file. This folder structure is good for reproducible research because it clearly separates original data from processed data, making sure that raw files are never overwritten or changed. Organizing scripts separately from outputs makes it easy to understand exactly how results were generated and allows analyses to be rerun step by step. Additionally, including documentation and a README provides transparency about the process, assumptions, and file dependencies, making it possible for others and my future self to reproduce the analysis, verify results, or extend the project with minimal confusion. It is my belief that employing documented code when doing computation-based research becomes crucial because documentation facilitates transparency, reproducibility, and trust in the outcomes of investigations. The way one documents the code they write will enable them to articulate not only what it does but also how they arrived at various conclusions, which can assist in enabling someone to understand and replicate both their thought process and the results of their computations based upon similar data and methodologies. Well-documented code will ensure fewer mistakes in coding, debugging, and revising and will allow for future exploration of one’s research or reapplication if necessary.**
